README.markdown, before:

#Readme for TA\_MapKitPlugin for TapLynx

#####Created by Walter Tyree on 9/13/10.
#####Copyright 2010 Tyree Apps, LLC. All rights reserved.

In order to use the MapKit features of the iPhone, you first must ensure that you have added the 
MapKit framework to your applicaiton. If you have never added a framework to XCode here is a [link
to instructions from Apple](http://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#recipes/XcodeRecipes/Linking_to_Libraries_and_Frameworks/Linking_to_Libraries_and_Frameworks.html)

If the above link is broken, it comes from the iOS Reference Library, XCode 3 Recipes document
and the Linking to Libraries and Frameworks chapter.

This *fourth* version of the Tyree Apps MapKit plugin for TapLynx requires locations to be in
latitude and longitude notation, rather than simple Street Address/Zip. There seems to
be a lot of licensing and marketing tied up with geocoding of addresses, so for now we
are leaving that step up to the user. For US based addresses we like www.geocoder.us but
there are many other free and paid services available.

##What's New in this Version
Thanks to user Georg for showing us that there was an error in the way the custom pin images were rendering. We have fixed that issue and describe it in detail [on our blog.](http://blog.tyreeapps.com/2011/04/mapkit-custom-images-and-offset-issues.html) Additionally, we have discovered and repaired a bug that would cause the plugin to crash sometimes after the app had been sent to the background and then brought to the foreground.

##Features
This plugin has two buttons at the top. One button will display a list of the locations. The other button will toggle adding and removing the user's location from the map.
We have added a subtitle to the tableview that displays the annotations. The list will appear when the user taps a new button we have added to the Navigation Bar. \(Yet again we prove that we are not graphic designers by the quality of the button icon\). The tabview appears and lists the place names alphabetically. When the user taps one of the place names, the map will center on that Map Annotation's icon and show the callout associated with the annotation. Also, we've discovered that decimal precision on latitude and longitude seems to matter. [Here is a post at our blog about position decimal precision](http://blog.tyreeapps.com/2011/02/mapkit-latlong-errors-and-decimal.html)

##NGConfig.plist Configurations
As with any other TapLynx plugin, this is designed so that the user can get a usable product using only the NGConfig.plist file. The main map layout and configuration is done at the top level of the Dictionary. All of the places to be represented on the map are done within an array with a key of _Places_. There is a plist snippet titled _TA\_MKP\_plist.plist_ included in the project which has a sample dictionary that you can paste into code to view the sample data. _Important_ if you do not want to use a particular key make sure to delete the whole key, don\'t just leave it with a blank value.

###Key \(Type\): Value Description
Title \(String\): This is the string that will appear in the Navigation bar above the map  
ShortTitle \(String\): This is the title for the button on the tab bar  
TabImageName \(String\): This is the filename of an image that is included in the project and is of suitable size and format for a tab button  
customViewControllerClass \(String\): This is the name of the controller it should always be TA\_MapKitPlugin  
start\_latitude \(Number\): This is a floating point decimal used for the latitude. Latitudes that are North of the Equator are represented by positive numbers. If no value is supplied the default of 35.047 is used  
start\_longitude \(Number\): This is a floating point decimal used for the longitude. Longitudes that are East of the Prime Meridian are represented by positive numbers. If no value is supplied, the default of -90.025 is used.  
start\_view \(Number\): This is the width, in meters, that the default view of the map should have. If no value is supplied, the map will set its zoom level so that all of the pins are visible.  
pinImage \(String\): This is the filename of an image used to replace the default map pin icon supplied by the system. If no pinImage is supplied a standard, red pin will be displayed. You can place this key either at the root of the map dictionary or within any of the item dictionaries. This give the possibility for a mixutre of pin images.  
Places \(Array\): This is an array of dictionaries. Each dictionary will have information about 1 location.  

_Within The Places Array_

placeName \(String\): This is the main title that will be displayed in the callout  
subTitle \(String\): This will be the subtitle displayed in the callout. This is optional  
detail\_HTML \(String\): This is the HTML that will be displayed on a detail view that is pushed onto the application when the user clicks on the callout. The detail information is loaded into a template html file contained in the project. You can add CSS and other styings to the html template file. 
latitude \(Number\): The latitude value for the location.  
longitude \(Number\): The longitude value for the location.  
pinImage \(String\): This is the filename of an image icon that will display only for this location.  

##Customizing the Detail Screen
The detail screen of the plugin has a nib file to help with customization. The nib can be found in _TA\_MKP\_DetailView.xib_ in the UIElements folder of the plugin. Currently, the nib is just the UIWebView used to display the html content.

The HTML from the detailHTML string that is associated with a particular location is put into the body of an html template document. The html template document is called _TA\_MKP\_Template_. You can modify the CSS and add custom links, footers and the like by changing that template document.

##Internationalization
The Alert box that is displayed if the user tries to show their location but their location will not fit in the current window is localizable. When translating the strings you need to account for these strings:  
    "Location"
    "Your location is not on this map. Would you like to zoom the map to include your location?"
    "YES"
    "NO"

A little trick with localizations. You can change even these phrases in English by making an enty for them in the English version of the Localizable.strings file found in any TapLynx project. If you think "YES" should be the more informal "OK" then just add this line  
    "YES" = "OK";
to the file.

##Copyright and Notes
This plugin is copyright 2011 by Tyree Apps, LLC. You may incorporate it into your projects and modify it as you see fit. We do not require attribution, but there is always karma to consider. This plugin uses icons from the Glyphish icon set which Tyree Apps, LLC has purchased and licensed. You should go over to [the Glyphish website](http://www.glyphish.com) to make sure you are comfortable with the licensing terms.

Commit message:

Added scripts and a Spreadsheet for updating places

README.markdown, after:

#Readme for TA\_MapKitPlugin for TapLynx

#####Created by Walter Tyree on 9/13/10.
#####Copyright 2010-2012 Tyree Apps, LLC. All rights reserved.

In order to use the MapKit features of the iPhone, you first must ensure that you have added the 
MapKit framework to your applicaiton. If you have never added a framework to XCode here is a [link
to instructions from Apple](http://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#recipes/XcodeRecipes/Linking_to_Libraries_and_Frameworks/Linking_to_Libraries_and_Frameworks.html)

If the above link is broken, it comes from the iOS Reference Library, XCode 3 Recipes document
and the Linking to Libraries and Frameworks chapter.

This *fifth* version of the Tyree Apps MapKit plugin for TapLynx requires locations to be in
latitude and longitude notation, rather than simple Street Address/Zip. There seems to
be a lot of licensing and marketing tied up with geocoding of addresses, so for now we
are leaving that step up to the user. For US based addresses we like www.geocoder.us but
there are many other free and paid services available.

##What's New in this Version
This version adds a script to transform a csv file of places and insert it into an NGConfig.plist. See the section below called *Spreadsheets* for instructions.

##Features
This plugin has two buttons at the top. One button will display a list of the locations. The other button will toggle adding and removing the user's location from the map.
We have added a subtitle to the tableview that displays the annotations. The list will appear when the user taps a new button we have added to the Navigation Bar. \(Yet again we prove that we are not graphic designers by the quality of the button icon\). The tabview appears and lists the place names alphabetically. When the user taps one of the place names, the map will center on that Map Annotation's icon and show the callout associated with the annotation. Also, we've discovered that decimal precision on latitude and longitude seems to matter. [Here is a post at our blog about position decimal precision](http://blog.tyreeapps.com/2011/02/mapkit-latlong-errors-and-decimal.html)

##NGConfig.plist Configurations
As with any other TapLynx plugin, this is designed so that the user can get a usable product using only the NGConfig.plist file. The main map layout and configuration is done at the top level of the Dictionary. All of the places to be represented on the map are done within an array with a key of _Places_. There is a plist snippet titled _TA\_MKP\_plist.plist_ included in the project which has a sample dictionary that you can paste into code to view the sample data. _Important_ if you do not want to use a particular key make sure to delete the whole key, don\'t just leave it with a blank value.

###Key \(Type\): Value Description
Title \(String\): This is the string that will appear in the Navigation bar above the map  
ShortTitle \(String\): This is the title for the button on the tab bar  
TabImageName \(String\): This is the filename of an image that is included in the project and is of suitable size and format for a tab button  
customViewControllerClass \(String\): This is the name of the controller it should always be TA\_MapKitPlugin  
start\_latitude \(Number\): This is a floating point decimal used for the latitude. Latitudes that are North of the Equator are represented by positive numbers. If no value is supplied the default of 35.047 is used  
start\_longitude \(Number\): This is a floating point decimal used for the longitude. Longitudes that are East of the Prime Meridian are represented by positive numbers. If no value is supplied, the default of -90.025 is used.  
start\_view \(Number\): This is the width, in meters, that the default view of the map should have. If no value is supplied, the map will set its zoom level so that all of the pins are visible.  
pinImage \(String\): This is the filename of an image used to replace the default map pin icon supplied by the system. If no pinImage is supplied a standard, red pin will be displayed. You can place this key either at the root of the map dictionary or within any of the item dictionaries. This give the possibility for a mixutre of pin images.  
Places \(Array\): This is an array of dictionaries. Each dictionary will have information about 1 location.  

_Within The Places Array_

placeName \(String\): This is the main title that will be displayed in the callout  
subTitle \(String\): This will be the subtitle displayed in the callout. This is optional  
detail\_HTML \(String\): This is the HTML that will be displayed on a detail view that is pushed onto the application when the user clicks on the callout. The detail information is loaded into a template html file contained in the project. You can add CSS and other styings to the html template file. 
latitude \(Number\): The latitude value for the location.  
longitude \(Number\): The longitude value for the location.  
pinImage \(String\): This is the filename of an image icon that will display only for this location.  

##Customizing the Detail Screen
The detail screen of the plugin has a nib file to help with customization. The nib can be found in _TA\_MKP\_DetailView.xib_ in the UIElements folder of the plugin. Currently, the nib is just the UIWebView used to display the html content.

The HTML from the detailHTML string that is associated with a particular location is put into the body of an html template document. The html template document is called _TA\_MKP\_Template_. You can modify the CSS and add custom links, footers and the like by changing that template document.

##Spreadsheets
There is now a folder called *Maintenance* included in this repository. Within that folder is a Numbers spreadsheet that can be used to maintain longer lists of places to be used with the plugin. In order to use the spreadsheet simply follow the examples in the template. Then Export the file as a CSV and *be sure to set the encoding to UTF-8*. Failure to set the encoding will cause the detail\_HTML field to go all crazy and break the plugin.

Once the data is exported execute the ruby script *PlacesParse.rb* with two arguments: the path of the CSV file and the path of the NGConfig.plist. When I am doing this, I place the ruby script, the csv and a copy of the NGConfig into a folder and then I navigate to that folder in Terminal.app and execute a command like this:
  ruby PlacesParse.rb Places.csv NGConfig.plist
This will format the Places.csv data correctly and insert it into the NGConfig.plist file, replacing whatever was in the Places array of the NGConfig.plist file.

When using the spreadsheet the *subTitle*, *pinImage*, and *detail\_HTML* are optional fields. Also, the spreadsheet only updates the Places Array. Other updates should be done with the instructions above.

##Internationalization
The Alert box that is displayed if the user tries to show their location but their location will not fit in the current window is localizable. When translating the strings you need to account for these strings:  
    "Location"
    "Your location is not on this map. Would you like to zoom the map to include your location?"
    "YES"
    "NO"

A little trick with localizations. You can change even these phrases in English by making an enty for them in the English version of the Localizable.strings file found in any TapLynx project. If you think "YES" should be the more informal "OK" then just add this line  
    "YES" = "OK";
to the file.

##Older Versions
*Version 4*
Thanks to user Georg for showing us that there was an error in the way the custom pin images were rendering. We have fixed that issue and describe it in detail [on our blog.](http://blog.tyreeapps.com/2011/04/mapkit-custom-images-and-offset-issues.html) Additionally, we have discovered and repaired a bug that would cause the plugin to crash sometimes after the app had been sent to the background and then brought to the foreground.
##Copyright and Notes
This plugin is copyright 2012 by Tyree Apps, LLC. You may incorporate it into your projects and modify it as you see fit. We do not require attribution, but there is always karma to consider. This plugin uses icons from the Glyphish icon set which Tyree Apps, LLC has purchased and licensed. You should go over to [the Glyphish website](http://www.glyphish.com) to make sure you are comfortable with the licensing terms.
